Adam Watson Research ProposalVERY VERY ROUGH DRAFT…Closing of the panama and Indonesian seaways as analog to future climate shiftsIntro      The current rates of fossil fuel emissions, mainly C02, being emitted into the atmosphere are a direct cause of climate change, affecting air quality, plant and animal life, and the overall temperature of the planet. One cause of this could be the desalination of the world’s oceans, which affects the thermohaline circulation. A slow down in the circulation of the oceans would have significant effects on earth’s climate which has happened in the past. Hypothesis       During the Miocene and early Pliocene, tectonics causing the closure of the Indonesian Seaway and Panama Gateway caused a significant change in ocean currents, separating the Atlantic from the Pacific by the end of the Miocene. These changes had effects on ocean circulation, the calcium compensation depth (CCD), glaciation in Antarctica and the Northern hemisphere by the late Miocene and early Pliocene. Changes in ocean circulation meant that the distribution of life in the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, as well as land, would see a change, a direct effect of shifting currents due to tectonic shifts closing these seaways. The use of paleoceanographic proxies such as ?18O, ?13C, and neodymium isotopic fractionations, as well as C3 and C4 photosynthetic pathways for terrestrial life, record these events. Overall objective      The objective of my study is to determine the possible effects these changes will have on the planet and it’s climate using paleo analogs of changes to the thermohaline cycle.   Justification      With the melting of glaciers/polar ice caps–which account for 69% of earth’s fresh water (USGS)- land masses will decrease around the world as well as changes to the thermohaline circulation, or “global ocean conveyor”. In other words, it will slow the circulation of the oceans, which will have affects on climate/weather patterns and plant and animal life including humans. Research Plan       My plan is to take data from paleo database and look at the change in distributions of marine life before and after the closing of the panama and Indonesian seaways to establish what a change in the thermohaline cycle had on plant and animal life. Specifically, the distribution and how the thermohaline circulation was affected by the closing of these seaways using neodymium isotopes from fish teeth. I will use this data as an analog to the projected effects of the melting of glaciers and the addition of fresh water and the inevitable rise in sea level will have to life and climate/weather patterns on earth.
Bibliography:Cerling, Thure. "Global Vegetation Change through the Miocene/Pliocene Boundary." Nature 1997: 153:157. Print. Deconto, Robert M., David Pollard, Paul A. Wilson, Heiko Pälike, Caroline H. Lear, and Mark Pagani. "Thresholds for Cenozoic Bipolar Glaciation." Nature (2008): 652-56. Print. Droxler, Andre. "Caribbean Carbonate Crash and the Initiation of the Modern Global Thermohaline Ocean Circulation." Department of Geology and Geophysics, Rice University, and the Shipboard Scientific Party of ODP Leg 165 (1995). Print.Larsen, H. C., A. D. Saunders, P. D. Clift, J. Beget, W. Wei, and S. Spezzaferri. "Seven Million Years of Glaciation in Greenland." Science (1994): 952-55. Print. Haug, G.H., and N.W. Driscoll. "A Short Circuit in Thermohaline Circulation: A Cause for Northern Hemisphere Glaciation?" Science 282 (1998). Print. Kennett, James P., Gerta Keller, and M. S. Srinivasan. "Miocene Planktonic Foraminiferal Biogeography and Paleoceanographic Development of the Indo-Pacific Region." Geological Society of America Memoirs The Miocene Ocean: Paleoceanography and Biogeography: 197-236. Print. Lyle, Mitchell. "THE LATE MIOCENE (11-8 MA) EASTERN PACIFIC CARBONATE CRASH: EVIDENCE FOR REORGANIZATION OF DEEP-WATER CIRCULATION BY THE CLOSURE OF THE PANAMA GATEWAY." Proceedings of the Ocean Drilling Program, Scientific Results 1995: 821:837. Print. Thomas, Deborah J., and Rachael K. Via. "Neogene Evolution of Atlantic Thermohaline Circulation: Perspective from Walvis Ridge, Southeastern Atlantic Ocean." Paleoceanography (2007). Print. 