Adam WatsonLab 10Part I (Daniella Assing)Summarize the review and comments you gave to your peer. You will need to do this for each proposal that you review (i.e., twice). Be sure to state the name of the person you are reviewing.Queston 1Did you feel that the proposal you graded was complete in terms of length, and that it demonstrated a genuine effort on your peer's part. If not, explain what you felt was lacking. Yes, although the overall plan and hypothesis need further work, the proposal read showed an understanding of the material and good effort by the author. Question 2Briefly summarize the overarching objective and hypothesis of the reviewed proposal.Question 3Does the hypothesis meet the following criteria in your estimation? If not, explain why.* Do you believe that this hypothesis is coherent and understandable?Yes, although it does need a little work, the authors goals are clear. * Do you believe that this hypothesis is novel?No.* Do you believe that this hypothesis is testable/feasible?Yes* Do you believe that this hypothesis is scientifically or socially relevant?Yes, especially with the rise in CO2 and the affects on climate and animal life, IÕd say there is a significant social and scientific relevance.Question 4Summarize the areas where you felt that the proposal could be improved.The justification and overall plan need to be untangled from the hypothesis to be clearer what it is the author intends to do. Question 5What constructive criticism did you provide to your peer to address the areas that needed improvement?I told them to work on the overall plan and the justification of the project in order to make it easier to understand as well as more appealing. Question 6Did you feel that this proposal made an adequate use of citation and background research? If not, what additional information did you want to see?Citations were needed but the author did have references. Part II (Daniella Assing)Question 1Did the reviewer clearly understand your hypothesis? If not, what will you do to make it clearer?Yes, but they said I should narrow my project down to make it easier to follow and test.  Question 2Did the reviewer feel that your proposed project was scientifically or socially relevant? If not, how will you improve it?Yes.Question 3Did the reviewer approve of your proposed analytical methods? If not, how will you improve them?Yes, except they said I should focus on fewer tests to make it more manageable. Question 4Do you feel that your reviewer did an adequate and thorough job in their review? How could they have improved their review?Yes, although it might have been helpful for us to breakout into different locations to concentrate better. Trying to read with everyone talking around you was very distracting for both of us and made it hard to focus on the projects. Question 5In general, what steps will you now take to improve your proposal?I will focus my research plan to make it more manageable. Adam Watson
Lab 10

Part I (Ben D Barnes)
Queston 1
Did you feel that the proposal you graded was complete in terms of length, and that it demonstrated a genuine effort on your peer's part. If not, explain what you felt was lacking.
Absolutely, the author did there research and demonstrated a solid understanding of the proposed research. 
Question 2
Briefly summarize the overarching objective and hypothesis of the reviewed proposal.
Study the effects of the diversification/ spread or emergence of land plants during the Devonian and its effects on marine and freshwater environments. 
Question 3
Does the hypothesis meet the following criteria in your estimation? If not, explain why.
* Do you believe that this hypothesis is coherent and understandable?
Yes, the author made their hypothesis very clear and to the point. 
* Do you believe that this hypothesis is novel?
Yes
* Do you believe that this hypothesis is testable/feasible?
Yes
* Do you believe that this hypothesis is scientifically or socially relevant?
Yes
Question 4
Summarize the areas where you felt that the proposal could be improved.
I saw need for improvement in the research plan. 
Question 5
What constructive criticism did you provide to your peer to address the areas that needed improvement?
I think the criteria and controls for the study could have been better explained/ constrained. 

Question 6
Did you feel that this proposal made an adequate use of citation and background research? If not, what additional information did you want to see?
Yes
Part II (Ben D Barnes)
Question 1
Did the reviewer clearly understand your hypothesis? If not, what will you do to make it clearer?
Yes, although they did give suggestions for making my hypothesis clearer.
Question 2
Did the reviewer feel that your proposed project was scientifically or socially relevant? If not, how will you improve it?
Yes
Question 3
Did the reviewer approve of your proposed analytical methods? If not, how will you improve them?
Yes, they also gave some suggestions as to what I might do to improve my methods making it easier to research and write the final proposal. 
Question 4
Do you feel that your reviewer did an adequate and thorough job in their review? How could they have improved their review?
They did a great job. They even suggested papers to use in my research.
Question 5
In general, what steps will you now take to improve your proposal?
I will focus and condense my research plan to keep it more manageable as well as make my overall thesis more to the point.
