Adam WatsonWrite-up 8	Authors Peters and Foote attempt to answer the question of rates of extinction in regards to the volatility of the stratigraphic record using data from the USGS as well as sourced data on stratigraphic units from around the world.  Using data from Sepkoski’s unpublished compendium, 30,379 marine genera were used in regards to the stratigraphic record to see what effects available rock have on the perceived rates of extinction. Empirical rates of extinction were calculated and then compared to models designed by the authors to see what effects the volatility in the preservation of rocks had on them. Through various models of extinction relating to stratigraphic record, the authors determine that “observed variations in rates of extinction at the genus level may be spurious.  		The good. The intro to this paper, as well as most of the main body, is concise and to the point. The authors Peters and Foote managed to give strong evidence by modeling extinction rates based on stratigraphy which states: “with an increase in exposed sedimentary rock, extinction rates fall while a decrease in sedimentary rock correlates to a an increase in extinction rate”. The authors further test this by using a mathematical model using “smoothed extinction series through the empirically calibrated time series of preservation”. This further showed that the volatility in extinction was do to heterogeneity in preservation in the rock record. In the end, the results are somewhat clear although inconclusive as it appears to me. Although the models show that numerous variants to their model give similar results to empirical data, the rock record has had an effect on the perceived rates of extinction. They also state that “larger extinction episodes may be to large to be explained as stratigraphic artifacts, a significant component to the observed variation in rates of genus extinction may be spurious”.  This leaves me with questions as to what can be done to determine extinction rates in the fossil record. 	I found this paper somewhat difficult to get through, mostly do to the format and language used. Anybody not studying paleontology or the like might have difficulty in absorbing what this paper is ultimately saying. The figures are mostly understandable but I found the descriptions not at all helpful. What made this paper even more difficult, although it probable made it more concise for well-versed readers, was the continuing reference to the methods section. While this kept the paper more to the point it had me lost and needing to reference that section to be sure I was clear about what was being said. 	The figures and graphs in the paper come in quite usful, keeping the paper more concise and to the point. Although, the explanations below some of them are quite jargony, making them feel a bit more confusing than they are.  