Adam Watson	Write-up 5      The Article starts with the exciting prospect of scenarios of change in biodiversity in the year 2100. The Authors state that with the understanding of how life was affected in the past using proxies to understand the effects of CO2 levels, climate and land mass, among others, they can project how biodiversity will change in the future. The study includes, terrestrial and freshwater organisms, which includes: plants, animals, and microbes. To model the change in biodiversity the authors lay out five steps. First, the authors picked the determinates they found most important; changes in land use, atmospheric CO2 concentrations, nitrogen deposition, acid rain, and climate, and biotic exchanges. Second, the expected change of each driver was calculated for each biome (10 terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems). Third, estimations were made for each biome, the effects a unit change will have on biodiversity. Lastly, “three different scenarios where developed for each biome, relative to “initial diversity, based on alternative assumptions about interactions among drivers of biodiversity change.” More over, the authors make “assumptions that no interactions among the various causes of biodiversity change, antagonistic interactions exist and biodiversity only responds to the driver it is most sensitive, and synergistic interactions and the response is multiplicatively to the drivers of biodiversity change.”       Overall, this paper is easy to read and organized in an effective manner, that helps the reader in understanding the material. It is broken into four well-defined sections, not including the intro; Modeling Biodiversity Change, Drivers of Change, Variation Across Biomes, and Uncertainty.  Each of these sections is well organized. The heart of the paper is the Drivers of change section.  The authors did well when organizing this part of the paper. Drivers of change is broken up into each region, giving the drivers which have the most effect on that biome are noted, while also mentioning exceptions and considerations that are necessary to be aware of. Most sections of the paper have figures or charts that go along with them that really help to keep the information straight.       All in all this is a good paper and there were few areas that I didn’t care for. The beginning of the “driver of change” section started out a little awkward but smoothed out shortly after the first paragraph. The only other issue I had with this paper was weather of not the assumptions made on grading the different biomes were accurate and weather or not the number of variables that were taken into consideration were sufficient. Some of this is answered in the uncertainties section. That being said, this section also raises more questions. While the evidence is convincing, using data from the past linked to changes in biodiversity to back up the claims of the paper would have helped strengthen the argument. 	The figures and table are a definite necessity. Without the tables that organize the effects each driver has on a given biome, it would be relatively difficult to remember what had the greatest effect on a given biome. Also, the tables and figures are well organized and display the right amount of information. 